For my part in the BUBL project implementation, I contributed primarily to the bubble visuals, as well as assisting my teammates in learning new practices and doing research to fix bugs. For the bubbles, I created the smooth, elastic animations when a bubble is resized, and I constructed and implemented the particle effect animation that occurs when a bubble pops. On top of animating it, I fixed the bubble resizing to expand from the center rather than the corner of the bubble, and I animated the bubble’s font size to seamlessly grow with the bubble size. I also created the "ghost bubble" for completed tasks, as well as its appearing animation. I applied partial opacity to the bubbles and pop particles as well.

I programmed the bubble collection to rearrange itself to move the last-dragged bubble to the front, which involved learning how to use the "key" feature of flutter widgets, so when the bubble stack’s array was rearranged the widget wasn’t animating based on old information and remembered which bubble was which (each bubble needed to have a widget key derived from its bubble_id in the database). I also helped generalize some of the bubble data based on resolution, such as storing bubble position as a 0-1 value based on its fractional position in the screen, instead of using direct pixel counts.

Earlier in the semester, before I was able to make more concrete contributions, I helped the team with understanding git and its practices, having experience with it before. I also assisted Martin during all of the database schema planning to ensure that we have a versatile and scalable database in our backend. Later on, I found an issue with our .gitignore that caused many files that should have been ignored to be tracked by git (cache files, auto-generated user files, etc), which caused many merges to fail. I did some research on it and provided the team a git command line solution to fix their gitignores on their branches. Since many merge conflicts occurred because of this, there are several branches on github that have had my contribution and then were left unmerged, as the files had to be replaced manually on another branch. All my code did make it into the final branch of the repo.
